Now that you understand the basics of the logit lens, it's time to expand your knowledge of that analysis.
Learn a bit more about the Bert model.
Experience the joy of getting error messages and working with GPUs and CPUs, and learn more about standardizing
data and visualizing internal model activations in various ways.
So there's quite a lot to do in this code challenge.
So let's begin.
The goal of exercise one is to import the large Bert model and have a review about masked token prediction
in Bert.
Now for starters we're going to work with this Bert large version of the model.
We actually haven't worked with this particular model yet.
We've only been working with the smaller version of Bert.
So once you import it, you can have a quick look through the model, see how it differs from the smaller
version.
Now you don't need to do like a rigorous quantitative comparison, but just check for typical things
that you look for in a model description, like the number of embeddings dimensions, the number of
transformer blocks, the names of the different components of the model, and so on.
Then you want to move that model to the GPU.
Now, to be honest, this entire code challenge could easily be done just on the CPU, but I want you
to have some more practice with moving text and data back and forth between the GPU and the CPU.
I hope that will cause some errors and a bit of confusion.
And the reason why I hope that it does is because I think that's worth it.
Because having more experience with integrating across different processors and sorting the code out
and dealing with error messages and so on, That definitely pays off in the long term, even though
it's a bit frustrating in the short term.
Anyway, the main part of this exercise is a reminder of how to do masked token prediction in a Bert
model.
Here is the text that we will work with for the rest of this code challenge.
The way you do anything is the way you do everything.
That's one of my favorite sayings, as you know from the previous video.
Anyway, write out this sentence, but replace the word way with the word mask and with square brackets
around it.
You will remember from earlier in the course that the Bert model has a special token for this text,
with the word mask with square brackets around it, and the model has been trained to make predictions
about what token should be in that position.
Once you have this token sequence, you can print it out like this and show all the tokens over here,
and then you can do a forward pass through the model.
Now we are not doing logit lens just yet, not in this exercise.
So here for this exercise you only need the final logits.
You do not need the hidden states.
And then you can make a plot that looks like this.
Find the token with the maximum logit and convert that back to text.
Now in this particular case, it worked out well.
The model predicted the correct token.
Okay.
So now you can pause the video and code up this exercise.
And I will now switch to code and show my solution.
Here are all of the libraries that I will use for this entire code challenge.
And here I'm importing Bert-large.
So previously we have been working with Bert unnamed Named Uncased.
But without writing anything.
Here you are implicitly importing the small version of Bert.
So we haven't worked with this yet, so we will have a look at what this looks like.
So here I'm setting up the GPU.
Here I'm moving the model to the GPU and then switching the model into eval mode.
So here we see the large version of Bert.
Now of course Bert models get much bigger than this one.
But this is the one that we are going to work with here.
Okay, so it has an embeddings dimension of 1024.
You can compare that to 768 for example.
And yeah this one has 24 layers 24 transformer blocks.
Again you can compare that to 12 for example.
Okay.
And otherwise we have seen before that the naming convention and the matrix storage convention is different
for Bert compared to GPT.
So it's good practice.
Whenever you're working with a model or a new model or a model that you haven't worked with in a while,
to just print out the description and have a look through and remind yourself of the different names
for the different matrices and so on.
Okay.
And then I would also like to point out this final little module at the end.
Now when we worked with the GPT models, for example, in the previous video, there was the little
module at the end that was called LM underscore head.
So language model head.
And that had literally just one piece at the end of it.
It was basically the equivalent of this.
It was a linear object.
So it was basically just a matrix.
But here we have this whole module called predictions.
And that has a couple of matrix multiplications with a Gelu nonlinear activation in between there's
a layer norm.
And then we get to the final layer where we go from the embeddings dimension, which is what we're in
all the way up here, still in the embeddings dimension.
And then we go out to the vocab dimension and that is called the decoder.
Okay.
So that will be relevant for the next exercise.
So here we have the text.
The way you do anything is the blank.
You do everything.
Of course you know that this should be the word way.
And also just a quick reminder this particular model is called uncased.
That means it's been trained with all lowercase.
So that means that there is no difference between the with a capital and the with a lowercase.
I still like it to be capital because I'm very old school.
I like proper capitalizations.
Anyway.
Uh, tokenize.
Uh, and then, yeah, just printing out, uh, what this tokenized version of the text looks like.
Okay, here I do the forward pass.
Uh, notice I'm not getting the hidden states here For this particular exercise, we only need the final
logits from the output.
So here I have the mass token ID that is here.
That is something I defined here.
So where does where do the tokens equal the mask token ID.
So this gives me the location of the mask here.
Okay.
So then I'm getting the logits for that task location.
Uh putting it back to the CPU, bringing it from the GPU back to the CPU and then finding the maximum
logit.
And then I'm plotting and finding what that maximum value corresponds to.
And that is the token way.
So that's great.
That is an accurate prediction.
Exercise two is actually just a small addition to exercise one.
You do not need to run any new analyses or forward passes.
Just take the final output.
Logits.
Make a histogram of them, including a vertical dashed line over here to indicate the maximum token.
Logit that we figured out in the previous exercise was the word weigh.
And then I want you to z score this entire distribution.
And then you can generate this plot.
This is exactly the same plot you saw in the previous exercise.
So token index on the x axis.
And previously it was the logits on the y axis.
Here it is the z score on the y axis.
Remember that the formula for the z score, the z transformation, is each data point minus the mean
of all the data points in the distribution, divided by the standard deviation of the distribution.
So we're going to be z scoring a lot in this code challenge.
One of the big Advantages of z scoring data in general.
And also here in this code challenge, is that we can interpret these numbers as standard deviation
units away from the center of the distribution.
In other words, the model activation for the correct token was over ten standard deviations away from
the center of the distribution of all the other tokens.
That's a lot.
Ten standard deviations is really a lot.
It shows how well the model was able to predict the missing token, and also how good the separation
is of the predicted token relative to all of the other tokens.
Now, this histogram is also important to expect, because the interpretability of the z score depends
on the data being at least roughly Gaussian distributed.
Now it doesn't need to be a perfect normal distribution, but you do want to see one peak that decays
on both sides.
And if you see that in the distribution, then the Z score is going to be interpretable as standard
deviation units away from the mean.
So that's it for this exercise.
Now you can pause the video and get to work.
I will now switch to code, but only briefly because there isn't really that much to discuss.
For this solution, the most important line of code in this exercise solution is this line here.
Oops.
This this line over here.
So we take the data minus the mean of the data and divide by the standard deviation of the data.
Now if you are familiar with statistics and Python, you might be wondering whether we need to set the
denominator degrees of freedom to be one and all.
I will say, I don't want to get into a long discussion about that.
Basically, it has to do with whether you consider these values to be a sample or a population.
But all I can say here is that it doesn't really matter because the sample size is so large.
So we have over 30,000 data points.
In fact, it is.
I don't even remember the exact number.
Let me see.
So whether you use the denominator degrees of freedom it of 1 or 0 is the difference between 30,500
and 22 versus 30,521.
So in practice it really does not matter at all.
Okay.
But I just wanted to mention that for the statistics aficionados in the audience here okay.
Anyway, so this is transforming all of the data to a z score okay.
And then the rest of this is just plotting here.
I'm doing some stuff with Grid Spec.
And that's just because I want the plot to have unequal sizes.
So this one.
So basically I set up Uh, three uh, subplots.
And then this plot only occupies the first plot and this one occupies the other two.
You know, I've mentioned this several times in the beginning of the course, but I haven't mentioned
it so much recently.
But if you do the visualizations differently from how I do it, totally fine.
The point of this course is for you to learn methods to investigate language models.
I really don't care about the details of the plotting.
That's totally.
That's so unimportant.
Okay.
Anyway, uh, yeah, you can look through all of this code.
It's not terribly interesting.
I'm basically just transforming, uh, or.
Yeah, beautifying these plots according to how I think looks nice.
Now for exercise three.
The goal here is to repeat the masked token prediction.
But for all of the words in a for loop.
So we're still not yet doing the logit lens analysis.
But this analysis here in exercise three is setting us up for that, because we're going to do the logit
lens analysis over all the layers, over the hidden states, and also over all of the tokens.
So to do this exercise you set up a for loop over all the tokens.
Replace each token in turn with the word mask with square brackets around it.
Then you do a forward pass.
Grab all the activations.
Find the maximum token prediction for each missing token, and this list I've printed out here just
for confirmation of the masking.
So in this set of lists, each row corresponds to an iteration in the for loop.
And you can see the number three appearing along the diagonal over here.
And sorry 103.
And the token 103 corresponds to the mask token.
So this is just some confirmation that each token in turn was replaced with the mask.
The end result of this exercise will be a table that you generate.
You print out.
The table looks something like this.
So in the left column we have the target words.
The middle column shows the predicted words, and the right column shows the z value for each of the
predicted words.
So in this case what you see here, the model correctly predicted the first token in the sentence.
It's also pretty interesting that the model predicted that the CLS token should be a period, and that's
pretty interesting, because it means that the model understood from context that this is a full sentence,
and so the token preceding a full sentence is likely to be a period.
Anyway.
You will discover what the rest of the predicted tokens look like when you pause the video and switch
to Python, which is what you should do now.
And now I will switch to code.
Here I am printing out the text again.
It's actually very slightly different from the text I wrote in exercise one.
Apparently I'm not using a period here, and I guess I did settle down to, uh, not capitalizing everything.
But anyway.
Uh, okay, so then tokenize the full text.
So there's no masks in here and here.
I loop over all of the tokens in the text, and then here I make a copy of the tokens and so dot clone
to make a copy, and then we have to send it to the GPU.
And then I am replacing each index in this for loop with the mask from this tokenizer.
It's also fine if you would write something like tokenizer dot encode and then uh like this.
That would also work.
But it's nice to know about this specific feature so I can actually just show you this here.
So tokenizer mask token ID and it is 103.
Okay.
So uh, so that's the mask.
And then yeah here I'm just printing out this little, uh, row just to show that each token in turn
is replaced with the mask token.
Then I push all those mask tokens through the model.
Now, of course, you could also let me see.
You could move the mask tokens to the device, uh, to the GPU over here.
Like this.
That's also fine.
And then here I get the output.
Logits.
Of course, we only have one sequence in this batch, so that's why I'm indexing zero over here.
And then we want the logits for the missing token.
For the masked token.
Bring that one back to the CPU.
And then here I find the token associated with the largest logit and then decode that to get text,
and then I get the z score for that specific token.
So this is that particular predicted token minus the mean of the distribution divided by the standard
deviation of the distribution.
So I can run that that runs quite fast.
If you're doing all of this on the CPU then maybe it takes, I don't know, ten 15 seconds for uh,
let me see for this line to run.
But otherwise yeah, it's less than one second.
Okay.
So yeah, that's just the confirmation.
And now we can print out the entire, uh, text that Bert predicted.
So the sequence, the predicted sequence is the way you do it.
The way you do.
Not quite as profound as the original version, but it does make a lot of sense.
And each of these individual words, even when they are technically incorrect.
So in terms of categorical accuracy, this word is wrong because it's not anything.
But in terms of the contextual accuracy and the semantic accuracy, grammatical accuracy, it actually
is correct the way you do it.
Period.
That is a complete sentence.
And then it's also interesting to just qualitatively have a look at these z scores.
And sometimes these z scores are higher.
And that tends to be when the model was correct.
And like these cases here where the model was incorrect the z scores are a little bit lower.
Of course here it's also just around eight and a half.
There are six exercises in total in this code challenge.
And you have now completed the first three.
So I'm going to break the video here.
Encourage you to take a short break.
And when you feel refreshed and relaxed and ready to continue, then come back to the next video.